let's get the reaction then of Hamas and
speak to Osama hamdan who's the senior
Hamas spokesman he's joining us on the
phone thank you very much uh Mr hamdan
for joining us on Al jazer so the US
president there saying that a temporary
ceasefire in Gaza could be reached in a
few days what is your reaction to that
how realistic is that from hamas's point
of
view well unfortunately I I don't know
how uh President Biden came up with this
conclusion because the paper which was
uh introduced by the American side in
Baris didn't show any real world to
achieve a ceasefire it was closely most
closely to the Israeli position and um
and
anyway prime minister Nan yahu had said
that there was no any kind there was no
kind of an agreement with the American
side on a ceas fire so I I I I am
wondering why he is saying that and how
he's saying that how he came up with
this conclusion did did so did President
Biden's comments come to you as a
surprise did you receive an official
proposal for a deal or
not well there was no no official
proposal as an American proposal but was
delivered after uh uh the late Baris
meeting and uh it was the the paper
which was delivered after this meeting
was an American ideas about what uh is
supposed to be discussed nothing more
than this okay well Al jazer we've been
told that this deal would include uh the
exchange of 400 Palestinian prisoners
for 40 Israeli captives held in Gaza um
can you confirm any of this was this
part of the deal will Hamas agree to a
deal that will allow uh for the release
of 40 captives held in
Gaza well this is the main problem how
the Americans are thinking we are are
talking about the ceasefire we are
talking about uh the Israeli attacks to
stop the Israeli attacks against the
Palestinians we are talking about the
starvation in Gaza how to make an end
for this everyone heard Gallant at the
the 9th of October talking that he will
prevent food water anything electricity
to the Palestinians in order to make
them surrend for the Israelis so it is a
will to do that starvation in Gaza and
the Americans are talking about the The
pronal Exchange we have to talk about
the most important essential issue to
release the prisoners in the open air
jail the biggest open air jail in the
world Gaza he has to release the people
in Gaza to let the food come to them to
to to to eat because we are talking
about certain
people who have died by starvation in
the northern part of Gaza this is what
how we see the hypocracy of the American
Administration they are talking about
releasing some Israelis while hundreds
of thousands 2.4 millions of
Palestinians are starving in Gaza what
is hamas's main demand today Mr hamdan
uh what would you uh agree to uh in
order to have a a deal right now with
Israel and make a a ceasefire a reality
uh in Gaza in the coming
days well we are we are the only side
who is talking about the is fire while
the Israelis are talking about Theos and
the Americans are still talking about
Theos our paper which was introduced for
the mediators and for through them to
the Israelis and the Americans talks
about the ceasefire it talks about the
lift of The Siege on gazda it talks
about the the the the the Reconstruction
of gazda and talks also about the
prisoners exchange no one can talk about
just only the prisoners exchange we have
to start talking from making an end for
the the the the suffness of the
Palestinians as I have said in the most
biggest open air jail in the world so
Hamas today wants a ceasefire as you say
not a pause you want a LIF of the siege
of Gaza as well Mr hamdan we have almost
30,000 Palestinians who have been killed
and who are under a lot of pressure
today they are starving babies are dying
of
malnutrition what are you willing to
compromise on on on you know where can
you be flexible to allow the the
suffering of Palestinians to
stop well I have to remind you that
those Palestinians have been killed by
the Israelis and those Palestinians are
starving by the
Israelis and by the hypocrisy and the
support of the United States
Administration so if anyone is talking
frankly about making an end for this
suffness for this King you have to make
an end for the Israeli attacks against
the Palestinians this is why Hamas is
standing very sharp we want to make an
end for the occupation and attack
against the Palestinians because you
can't guarantee the end of the suffness
unless the incubation is ended this is
why we are
standing in this sharp position because
Israel is killing the Palestinians for
the last 75 years and no one is saying
that everyone is asking the victims to
be CM while they are being slaughtered
this is a real hypocrisy in the American
policy so so one last question Mr hamdan
so is a deal near or not could they be a
ceasefire in the coming
days we hope to have a ceas far but it
seems to me that neither Biden or
Netanyahu are willing to do the the same
thank you for talking to us AMA hamdan
is Senor Hamas spokesperson joining us
there on the
phone well let's get the Viewpoint from
Israel now and bring in Zan basravi from
the Israeli Viewpoint I should say and
bring in Zayn basravi who's in ramala in
the occupied West Bank what are the
Israelis saying uh Zay to to these
hopeful comments from
Biden well it seems as though at the
moment the only thing Hamas and Israel
seem to agree on is contradicting the US
president Israeli officials spent much
of the day downplaying these very as you
say optimistic remarks from US President
Joe Biden regarding ing a potential
timeline for a ceasefire in the war on
Gaza and in the last few hours we've
heard from The Office of Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu in a statement he has
said that quote since the beginning of
the war I have been leading a political
campaign aimed at curbing the pressure
to end the war prematurely he says and
on the other hand also getting support
for Israel and in the statement
Netanyahu goes on to quote a poll saying
that Israel continues to enjoy
widespread support support in the
American public Netanyahu clearly
signaling that as long as he enjoys
American public support as long as
Israel enjoys support in the US public
sphere he does not have to do what the
White House or what President Joe Biden
says with regards to curbing the
conflict or trying to be bring an end to
the war in Gaza and just on Sunday on
the US talk shows Netanyahu was also
quoted as saying that deal or no deal
and assault on Rafa on the besieged area
of Rafa where so many people are
Sheltering so many displaced
Palestinians are Sheltering that will
carry on regardless of how the deal does
or does not go forward zann thank you
for the update Zayn basravi live for us
in
ramala